# Getting Started

::: danger DISCLAIMER
This project is in very early development and is not intended for production usage yet. This page mentions features that are not yet implemented, and the project may contain bugs or have breaking changes in the future.
:::

## About

metavana is a command line tool for generating high-quality web metadata and icons. metavana takes a JSON configuration file and outputs a directory of files containing your site's metadata.

For example, let's imagine that you are creating a minimal configuration file for this page. Your configuration file might might look something like this:

```json
{
	"site": {
		"name": "metavana",
		"domainName": "metavana.dev"
	},
	"pages": [
		{
			"url": "/getting-started",
			"name": "Getting Started"
		}
	]
}
```

metavana would take that configuration file and generate a folder containing the following HTML file:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html>
	<head>
		<meta charset="utf-8" />
		<title>Getting Started - metavana</title>

		<meta name="application-name" content="metavana" />
		<meta name="generator" content="metavana [version]" />
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1" />

		<link rel="canonical" href="https://metavana.dev/getting-started" />
	</head>
	<body></body>
</html>
```

There are many more options that you can set in your configuration file which generate additional metadata. You can define multiple pages in a single configuration file which generates multiple HTML files at once. In addition, metavana may also generate other files such as a `robots.txt` or a manifest file.

## Setup

### Pre-requisites

Before installing metavana, you must have the following pre-requisites installed on your system:

- Node.js (version 18 or higher)
- npm (version 10 or higher)

Node.js and npm are usually distributed together and don't need to be downloaded separately. Please see [this guide](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) on how to install Node.js and npm.

### Installation

After you have downloaded and installed Node.js and npm, open a terminal and run the following command to install metavana:

```bash
npm install -g metavana
```

Unlike some other Node.js packages, metavana is installed globally. This means that you can use the `metavana` in your terminal from any directory.

## Creating a site

### Directory structure

Once you have installed metavana, create a folder on your computer where you want to store your configuration file and output. Inside of that folder, create a JSON configuration file and a folder where you want your generated files to go. For example, your file structure might look something like this:

```
my-project/
├── config.json
└── output/
```

### Creating a configuration file

The configuration file is a JSON file containing a object with two main properties: `site` and `pages`. The `site` property describes the properties of the site itself, such as the site name and description. The `pages` property is an an array of objects, each of which describe the properties of a specific page on the site.

The `site` object requires that you set the `name` and `domainName` properties. The page objects require that you set the `url` property, as well as the `name` property if the page is not the home page.

For example, if we wanted to create a minimal configuration for a site with a home page at `/` and another page at `/example`, our configuration would like:

```json
{
	"site": {
		"name": "Example Site",
		"domainName": "example.com"
	},
	"pages": [
		{
			"url": "/"
		},
		{
			"url": "/example",
			"name": "Example Page"
		}
	]
}
```

All other properties are optional. For a full list of properties that you can set, see the [configuration reference](/configuration-reference).

### Generating the metadata

Once you have created your configuration file, open a terminal and navigate to the directory where you created your configuration file and output folder. Then, run the following command:

```bash
metavana config.json output
```

Replace `config.json` and `output` with the names of your configuration file and output folder respectively. After the command finishes running, you should now have files in your output folder containing the metadata.

## What's Next?

Now that you have created a basic project, the next step is to customize your configuration file. Please see the [configuration reference](/configuration-reference) for a full list of options.

## License

metavana is licensed under the [MIT License](https://github.com/jlachniet/metavana/blob/main/LICENSE). This means that while you are free to use metavana for any purpose, you must include the license file with any copies of metavana that you distribute. Files generated by metavana are not subject to this license.
